We're now going to start to focus on creating this header that's going to be displayed at the top of
every single page.
Now, given that this thing is displayed at the top of every page, there's definitely two ways we can
go about designing it and showing it on the screen.
Option number one would be to go into every one of our different page components, such as Indexed Edge's
sign in and sign up.
And in each of these we could add in about inside of sign in at the very top, maybe like right above
that form, some kind of like reusable header component.
If we took this kind of approach, we would have to go around to every different page and remember to
add in that header element.
There's definitely a better way to handle this.
You might recall that inside of our pages directory we had created a custom app component, so that
was inside of our underscore app JS file.
The reason we had originally done this was to just be able to include some global CSS.
But it turns out that this custom app component right here can also be used to show some elements on
the screen that will be visible on every single page.
Remember that this component prop right here is really the page that we are trying to show.
So component will be equal to our signing component or sign up or the landing page.
So if we want to show something that's going to be visible on every page, we could wrap this component
with that extra content.
Let me show you what I mean.
I'm going to add in a div right here.
Around that component.
And then right above the component itself, I'm going to put on in each one of header.
Make sure you move the semicolon at the very end of component if you had one.
I'll then save this and I'll flip back over and let's see what we get.
Well, we now have header at the very top and if I start to navigate to some other routes, you'll notice
that's present everywhere.
So without a doubt, this would be a pretty solid way of getting the header to be displayed on the screen.
Now, one thing that we need to really understand around this header is that it's kind of a reactive
in nature.
As the user starts to sign in and sign out of our application, we need to update the content in the
header.
So if the user is not signed in, we need to show some links to go to the sign up and sign in pages.
But once a user is authenticated, we're going to change that to just say sign out instead.
So that means that our header needs to understand who the current user is.
And that kind of presents a little bit of a problem for us with our current architecture.
Let me show you a diagram to help you understand why.
So at present, this is what we're saying that we want to do.
We want our app component to always display a header and possibly index DOJ's sign up or sign in.
At present, index is already fetching some data to figure out who the current user is, but we are
now saying that we want to somehow also have our header know who the current user is.
Rather than having two separate requests to fetch some data, it makes a lot of sense to really just
centralize that data fetching logic up into the app component alone so the app component can be in charge
of some initial prop function to fetch the current user so it can fetch the current user and then pass
that down as a prop into the header and index dogs.
That's what we're going to start to do.
Rather than having the landing page figure out who the current user is, we're going to extract that
into the app component instead.
And once the app component understands who the current user is, it can pass it down as a prop into
header and index dogs.
So eventually, right here instead of one, we will have an actual header component and we'll pass down
some prop to it that says, Hey, here's the current user.
Same thing for this component as well.
Remember, that component is going to eventually be the indexed JS component, and so we can somehow
include it in this element.
And this definitely sounds like not the worst thing in the world, but there is a little bit of a complication
we need to be aware of.
We're saying right now that we're going to move this data fetching logic from index up to app.
What that really means is we are going to define get initial props inside of our app component and indexes
will not require a get initial props function anymore.
So we're moving that entire function over and index JS is not going to have one.
However, at some point in the future, I think it is not unreasonable to say that we might have some
other component that does need to have some get initial props function.
Maybe it will be the landing page, maybe it will be some other page.
But we probably are going to eventually be in a scenario where we want to have both the app component
have get initial props and some page have get initial props as well.
And it turns out that having these two different components or these two different pages with the get
initial function is a little bit more challenging to deal with.
With next JSS.
Then you would probably expect, as we're kind of finding is true with a lot of this stuff around.
Anyways, the point is we might eventually want to get initial props up here and down here as well.
And to accommodate for that, we do have to add in a little bit of extra code.
It's just something to be aware of.
But right now let's just focus on relocating, get initial props from landing page up to app component.
So quick pause.
We'll start to write out this code in just a moment.